# PriceAlert
Alerts by email when product is on sale at below a set price.

NOTE: If you want to test this program out in its original, full working form (read below for what I mean by that), you need to insert your email details in the JSON and then comment out lines 328 to 333 in PriceAlert.py so that the non-functional GUI window doesn't open up and then require you to close it before the program starts up.

This project is one that sprang from an idea I had while trying to shop online for a 4K TV. I was in the market for a 55" 4K HDR TV and I had a pretty good idea of which model I wanted to where it was narrowed down to three different models, all depending on what sort of prices I could get. I was in no rush to make the purchase and was more than willing to wait as long as Black Friday in order to get a great deal.

The problem that I ran into was, “I know what I want, I know how much I’m willing to pay for it. How can I be notified when a website has this specific TV on sale so that I don’t miss it?” After searching around online, the best I could find were websites that would send you daily deals emails based off of a category of product. So I could sign up on a website for an email list to alert me when there was a TV on sale but that also included many TVs that I knew I didn’t want, as well as TVs that were hardly even discounted. This is when I came up with the idea to create my own program to do exactly what I wanted it to do.

The concept was this: I tell the program what product I’m interested in, what sites it is sold on and what price I want it to be for the program to notify me about the amazing deal that site was having. I started off by creating a setup in which a JSON file contained my email information and three lists. One contained the base URLs of the sites I was looking at. The other contained the product name, website name, end URL (specific page of the item) and the price at which I wanted to be alerted if the product’s price dipped that low. The third contained the XPath selector of where the price element is located on the website.

At a set time interval (I chose once every 12 hours), my program will loop through each item in the JSON and parse the web page’s source code to find the price element on that page. It then checks to see if that price is lower than the limit I had set and if so, I will immediately get an email regarding this deal. After making sure that this ran correctly, I decided to add on to this code to see if I could make it even better. As of now, this project is unfinished due to these additions, but what I have been working on is instead of manually entering my data into a JSON, I could create an unordered linked list where each node contains an object from a class I created called Product which contains all the information that was contained in the JSON.

I then decided to go even further and create a GUI using Python’s Tkinter package. I don’t know much about creating GUIs, but if you were to run it now, a rough outline of how it would run is available. After entering your product’s name and price, you would then enter the website information. This time, instead of having to manually search through a web page’s source code to find the XPath selector, I will use regex to automatically find it for us. You then would be able to store these products in the program and add or edit anything that you want. This is still very much a work in progress but there are many more features that could be added after this.

Now that I know how to create a website such as this one, I could instead build a web interface and use my recent knowledge of databases to store the information inside tables of a database instead of a linked list. Although Price Alert probably won’t be completed until at least the next few months, it has a lot of potential and has come a long way from being just a simple idea.
